https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-10052 (#6268)
open-cluster-management/rhacm-docs: apis/compliancehistory.json.adoc

    "catageories": ["CM Configuration Management"],
    "controls": ["CM-2 Baseline Configuration"],
    "standards": ["NIST SP 800-53"]
  },
  "policy": {
    "apiGroup": "policy.open-cluster-management.io",
    "id": 4,
    "kind": "ConfigurationPolicy",
    "name": "etcd-encryption",
    "namespace": "",
    "spec": {}
  },
  "event": {
    "compliance": "Compliant",
    "message": "configmaps [app-data] found as specified in namespace default",
    "timestamp": "2023-07-19T18:25:41.523Z",
    "metadata": {}
  }
}
----

=== Generating a spreadsheet

`/api/v1/reports/compliance-events`

You can generate a comma separated value (CSV) spreadsheet of compliance events for auditing and troubleshooting. It outputs the same and accepts the same query arguments as the `/api/v1/compliance-events` API endpoint. By default there is no `per_page` limitation set and there is no maximum for the `per_page` query argument. All the CSV headers are the same as the `/api/v1/compliance-events` API endpoint with underscores separating JSON objects. For example, the event timestamp has a header of `event_timestamp`.

=== Recording a compliance event

`POST /api/v1/compliance-events`

> //internal? should this be removed? or do you mean it can only be used on the hub cluster? I need help with this statement

Author: @mprahl Clarification statement here

Reviewer: It's for internal use in that GRC components use it but it's not supported for the user to use it. I mention it for awareness but we can remove it.

[#compliance-history-api]
= Policy compliance history (Technology Preview)

> [[_rhacm-docs_apis_compliancehistory_jsonoverview]]

Reviewer 2: Do we need lines 4-5? Or can we dive straight into your explanation of policy compliance after the title?

Author: I'm fine with removing it. I used it from other APIs.

> [[_rhacm-docs_apis_compliancehistory_jsonoverview]]

Author: ```suggestion
```

== Overview

> The policy compliance history API is an optional technical preview to provide long-term storage of {product-title} policy compliance events in a queryable format. You can use the API to get additional details such as the specification field to audit and troubleshoot your policy, and get compliance events when a policy is disabled or removed from a cluster. The policy compliance history API can also generate a comma-separated values (CSV) spreadsheet of policy compliance events for further auditing and troubleshooting.

Reviewer 2: Optional: 

We might be able to make the first and last sentence a bit more user focus. Content is totally good as is, but see if you like some of these rewrites: 

```suggestion
The policy compliance history API is an optional technical preview if you want long-term storage of {product-title} policy compliance events in a queryable format. You can use the API to get additional details such as the `spec` field to audit and troubleshoot your policy, and get compliance events when a policy is disabled or removed from a cluster. The policy compliance history API can also generate a comma-separated values (CSV) spreadsheet of policy compliance events to help you with auditing and troubleshooting.
```

Reviewer: @jc-berger I like this suggestion.

> The policy compliance history API is an optional technical preview to provide long-term storage of {product-title} policy compliance events in a queryable format. You can use the API to get additional details such as the specification field to audit and troubleshoot your policy, and get compliance events when a policy is disabled or removed from a cluster. The policy compliance history API can also generate a comma-separated values (CSV) spreadsheet of policy compliance events for further auditing and troubleshooting.

Reviewer: Could we please keep it as `spec` field? That is the actual field name in Kubernetes.

Author: @mprahl sure thing, i updated @jc-berger suggestion to include the change

=== Version information
[%hardbreaks]
__Version__ : 2.10.0

=== URI scheme
[%hardbreaks]

> _BasePath_ : /postgresql/apis

Reviewer: What is this?

Author: I wasn't sure what to put for PostgreSQL URI, but this is what I found so far: https://www.prisma.io/dataguide/postgresql/short-guides/connection-uris

```suggestion
_BasePath_ : postgresql://
```

Reviewer: Since this page is about the HTTP API, I don't think we need to mention Postgres here. It's a configuration detail for how the data is stored but not related to the usage of the API.

_Schemes_ : HTTPS

== API Endpoints

> === Listing policy compliance events

Reviewer: @dockerymick could you please include the query parameters section in the original Google doc?

Author: Thanks for pointing this out, I missed the table

`/api/v1/compliance-events`

> This lists all policy compliance events the user has access to by default. The response format is as follows and is sorted by `event.timestamp` in descending order by default:

Reviewer 2: Can we simply say "you"? 

```suggestion
This lists all policy compliance events that you have access to by default. The response format is as follows and is sorted by `event.timestamp` in descending order by default:
```

  },
  "policy": {
    "apiGroup": "policy.open-cluster-management.io",
    "id": 4,
    "kind": "ConfigurationPolicy",
    "name": "etcd-encryption",
    "namespace": "",
    "spec": {}
  },
  "event": {
    "compliance": "Compliant",
    "message": "configmaps [app-data] found as specified in namespace default",
    "timestamp": "2023-07-19T18:25:41.523Z",
    "metadata": {}
  }
}
----

=== Generating a spreadsheet

`/api/v1/reports/compliance-events`

You can generate a comma separated value (CSV) spreadsheet of compliance events for auditing and troubleshooting. It outputs the same and accepts the same query arguments as the `/api/v1/compliance-events` API endpoint. By default there is no `per_page` limitation set and there is no maximum for the `per_page` query argument. All the CSV headers are the same as the `/api/v1/compliance-events` API endpoint with underscores separating JSON objects. For example, the event timestamp has a header of `event_timestamp`.

=== Recording a compliance event

`POST /api/v1/compliance-events`
//internal? should this be removed? or do you mean it can only be used on the hub cluster? I need help with this statement

> This is an API endpoint used to record compliance events and is only supported on {product-title-short}. If there is a requirement to record policy compliance events externally from {product-title-short} policies, contact Red Hat support.

Reviewer 2: Optional user focus: 

```suggestion
This is an API endpoint used to record compliance events and is only supported on {product-title-short}. If you need to record policy compliance events externally from {product-title-short} policies, contact Red Hat support.
```

== Authentication and Authorization

> //consider moving this to closer to the beginning of the file 

Reviewer: I positioned this lower since I wanted users to see the value of the feature first before seeing how it works.

Author: Leaving as is

> //consider moving this to closer to the beginning of the file 

Author: ```suggestion

```

> The policy compliance history API utilizes the OpenShift instance used by the {product-title-short} hub cluster for authentication and authorization. You must provide your OpenShift token in the Authorization header of the HTTPS request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The policy compliance history API utilizes the OpenShift instance used by the {product-title-short} hub cluster for authentication and authorization. You must provide your OpenShift token in the `Authorization` header of the HTTPS request.
```

To find your token, run the following command:
[source,bash]
----
oc whoami --show-token
----

=== Viewing compliance events

To view the compliance events for a managed cluster, users must have access to complete the `get` `verb` for the `ManagedCluster` object on the {product-title-short} hub cluster. For example, to be able to view the compliance events of the `local-cluster` cluster, you might use the `open-cluster-management:view:local-cluster` `ClusterRole` or create your own resource as the following example:

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
 name: local-cluster-view
rules:
- apiGroups:
 - cluster.open-cluster-management.io
 resources:
 - managedclusters
 resourceNames:
 - local-cluster
 verbs:
 - get
----

To verify your access to a particular managed cluster, use the `oc auth can-i` command. For example, to check if you have access to the `local-cluster` managed cluster, run the following command:

----
oc auth can-i get managedclusters.cluster.open-cluster-management.io/local-cluster
----

=== Recording a compliance event

> Users or service accounts with `patch` `verb` access in the `policies.policy.open-cluster-management.io/status` resource in the corresponding managed cluster namespace have access to record policy compliance events. The `governance-policy-framework` pod on managed clusters utilizes the `open-cluster-management-compliance-history-api-recorder` service account in the corresponding managed cluster namespace on the {product-title-short} hub cluster to record compliance events. Each service account has the `open-cluster-management:compliance-history-api-recorder` `ClusterRole` bound to the managed cluster namespace. Be careful to prevent users and service accounts from being granted this access to ensure the trustworthiness of the data stored in the policy compliance history API.

Reviewer 2: What do you think of some of these rewrites for user focus. This content was a little difficult for me to wrap my head around, so hopefully, it's a bit clearer now to:

```suggestion
If you have service accounts with `patch` `verb` access in the `policies.policy.open-cluster-management.io/status` resource in the corresponding managed cluster namespace, then you have access to record policy compliance events. 

The `governance-policy-framework` pod on managed clusters helps you utilize your `open-cluster-management-compliance-history-api-recorder` service account in the corresponding managed cluster namespace on the {product-title-short} hub cluster. Use this account to record compliance events. Each service account has the `open-cluster-management:compliance-history-api-recorder` `ClusterRole` bound to the managed cluster namespace. To ensure the trustworthiness of the data stored in the policy compliance history API, carefully grant access to users and service accounts. 
```

Reviewer: The intent is to teach the customer what authorization safe guards the compliance data. It's not intended for the customer to leverage the service account or grant other service accounts this access. The GRC component is the one responsible for recording the compliance events.

[#compliance-history-api]
= Policy compliance history (Technology Preview)

== Overview

> The policy compliance history API is an optional technical preview if you want long-term storage of {product-title} policy compliance events in a queryable format. You can use the API to get additional details such as the `spec` field to audit and troubleshoot your policy, and get compliance events when a policy is disabled or removed from a cluster. The policy compliance history API can also generate a comma-separated values (CSV) spreadsheet of policy compliance events to help you with auditing and troubleshooting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The policy compliance history API is an optional technical preview feature if you want long-term storage of {product-title} policy compliance events in a queryable format. You can use the API to get additional details such as the `spec` field to audit and troubleshoot your policy, and get compliance events when a policy is disabled or removed from a cluster. The policy compliance history API can also generate a comma-separated values (CSV) spreadsheet of policy compliance events to help you with auditing and troubleshooting.
```

        "controls": ["CM-2 Baseline Configuration"],
        "standards": ["NIST SP 800-53"]
      },
      "policy": {
        "apiGroup": "policy.open-cluster-management.io",
        "id": 4,
        "kind": "ConfigurationPolicy",
        "name": "configure-custom-app",
        "namespace": "",
        // Only shown with `?include_spec`
        "spec": {}
      },
      "event": {
        "compliance": "Compliant",
        "message": "configmaps [app-data] found as specified in namespace default",
        "timestamp": "2023-07-19T18:25:41.523Z",
        "metadata": {}
      }
    }
  ],
  "metadata": {
    "page": 1,
    "pages": 7,
    "per_page": 20,
    "total": 123
  }
}
----

The following optional query parameters are accepted. Notice that those without descriptions just filter on the field it references. The parameter value `null` represents no value. Additionally, multiple values can be specified with commas. For example, `?cluster.name=cluster1,cluster2` for "or" filtering. Commas can be escaped with `\`, if necessary.

.Table of query parameters
|===
| Query argument | Description 

| cluster.cluster_id
|

| cluster.name
|

| direction 

> | The direction to sort by. This defaults to `desc`, which represents descending order. The supported values are `asc` or `desc`. 

Author: ```suggestion
| The direction to sort by. This defaults to `desc`, which represents descending order. The supported values are `asc` and `desc`. 
```

[#compliance-history-api]
= Policy compliance history (Technology Preview)

== Overview

The policy compliance history API is an optional technical preview if you want long-term storage of {product-title} policy compliance events in a queryable format. You can use the API to get additional details such as the `spec` field to audit and troubleshoot your policy, and get compliance events when a policy is disabled or removed from a cluster. The policy compliance history API can also generate a comma-separated values (CSV) spreadsheet of policy compliance events to help you with auditing and troubleshooting.

=== Version information
[%hardbreaks]
__Version__ : 2.10.0

> === URI scheme
> [%hardbreaks]
> _BasePath_ : /postgresql/apis
> _Schemes_ : HTTPS

Author: ```suggestion
```

        "controls": ["CM-2 Baseline Configuration"],
        "standards": ["NIST SP 800-53"]
      },
      "policy": {
        "apiGroup": "policy.open-cluster-management.io",
        "id": 4,
        "kind": "ConfigurationPolicy",
        "name": "configure-custom-app",
        "namespace": "",
        // Only shown with `?include_spec`
        "spec": {}
      },
      "event": {
        "compliance": "Compliant",
        "message": "configmaps [app-data] found as specified in namespace default",
        "timestamp": "2023-07-19T18:25:41.523Z",
        "metadata": {}
      }
    }
  ],
  "metadata": {
    "page": 1,
    "pages": 7,
    "per_page": 20,
    "total": 123
  }
}
----

The following optional query parameters are accepted. Notice that those without descriptions just filter on the field it references. The parameter value `null` represents no value. Additionally, multiple values can be specified with commas. For example, `?cluster.name=cluster1,cluster2` for "or" filtering. Commas can be escaped with `\`, if necessary.

.Table of query parameters
|===
| Query argument | Description 

| cluster.cluster_id
|

| cluster.name
|

| direction 

> | The direction to sort by. This defaults to `desc`, which represents descending order. The supported values are `asc` or `desc`. 

Reviewer: I'm not sure if it should be "asc or desc" or "asc and desc". You can only specify one but both values are supported which is why I lean towards "and".

Author: or is appropriate here

  },
  "event": {
    "compliance": "Compliant",
    "message": "configmaps [app-data] found as specified in namespace default",
    "timestamp": "2023-07-19T18:25:41.523Z",
    "metadata": {}
  }
}
----

=== Generating a spreadsheet

`/api/v1/reports/compliance-events`

You can generate a comma separated value (CSV) spreadsheet of compliance events for auditing and troubleshooting. It outputs the same and accepts the same query arguments as the `/api/v1/compliance-events` API endpoint. By default there is no `per_page` limitation set and there is no maximum for the `per_page` query argument. All the CSV headers are the same as the `/api/v1/compliance-events` API endpoint with underscores separating JSON objects. For example, the event timestamp has a header of `event_timestamp`.

== Authentication and Authorization
The policy compliance history API utilizes the OpenShift instance used by the {product-title-short} hub cluster for authentication and authorization. You must provide your OpenShift token in the `Authorization` header of the HTTPS request.

To find your token, run the following command:
[source,bash]
----
oc whoami --show-token
----

=== Viewing compliance events

> To view the compliance events for a managed cluster, users must have access to complete the `get` `verb` for the `ManagedCluster` object on the {product-title-short} hub cluster. For example, to be able to view the compliance events of the `local-cluster` cluster, you might use the `open-cluster-management:view:local-cluster` `ClusterRole` or create your own resource as the following example:

Reviewer 3: Need some rewrite here, will reach out over slack Mikela.

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
 name: local-cluster-view
rules:
- apiGroups:
 - cluster.open-cluster-management.io
 resources:
 - managedclusters
 resourceNames:
 - local-cluster
 verbs:
 - get
----

To verify your access to a particular managed cluster, use the `oc auth can-i` command. For example, to check if you have access to the `local-cluster` managed cluster, run the following command:

----
oc auth can-i get managedclusters.cluster.open-cluster-management.io/local-cluster
----

=== Recording a compliance event

> Users or service accounts with `patch` `verb` access in the `policies.policy.open-cluster-management.io/status` resource in the corresponding managed cluster namespace have access to record policy compliance events. The `governance-policy-framework` pod on managed clusters utilizes the `open-cluster-management-compliance-history-api-recorder` service account in the corresponding managed cluster namespace on the {product-title-short} hub cluster to record compliance events. Each service account has the `open-cluster-management:compliance-history-api-recorder` `ClusterRole` bound to the managed cluster namespace. Restrict users and service accounts access to the `status` to ensure the trustworthiness of the data stored in the policy compliance history API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users or service accounts with `patch` `verb` access in the `policies.policy.open-cluster-management.io/status` resource in the corresponding managed cluster namespace have access to record policy compliance events. The `governance-policy-framework` pod on managed clusters utilizes the `open-cluster-management-compliance-history-api-recorder` service account in the corresponding managed cluster namespace on the {product-title-short} hub cluster to record compliance events. Each service account has the `open-cluster-management:compliance-history-api-recorder` `ClusterRole` bound to the managed cluster namespace. Restrict user and service account `patch` verb access to the policy `status` to ensure the trustworthiness of the data stored in the policy compliance history API.
```

> Users or service accounts with `patch` `verb` access in the `policies.policy.open-cluster-management.io/status` resource in the corresponding managed cluster namespace have access to record policy compliance events. The `governance-policy-framework` pod on managed clusters utilizes the `open-cluster-management-compliance-history-api-recorder` service account in the corresponding managed cluster namespace on the {product-title-short} hub cluster to record compliance events. Each service account has the `open-cluster-management:compliance-history-api-recorder` `ClusterRole` bound to the managed cluster namespace. Be careful to prevent users and service accounts from being granted this access to ensure the trustworthiness of the data stored in the policy compliance history API.

Author: @mprahl @jc-berger thoughts?
```suggestion
Users or service accounts with `patch` `verb` access in the `policies.policy.open-cluster-management.io/status` resource in the corresponding managed cluster namespace have access to record policy compliance events. The `governance-policy-framework` pod on managed clusters utilizes the `open-cluster-management-compliance-history-api-recorder` service account in the corresponding managed cluster namespace on the {product-title-short} hub cluster to record compliance events. Each service account has the `open-cluster-management:compliance-history-api-recorder` `ClusterRole` bound to the managed cluster namespace. Restrict users and service accounts access to the `status` to ensure the trustworthiness of the data stored in the policy compliance history API.
```

Reviewer 2: @dockerymick great rewrite! Yes, it looks good to me!

Reviewer: It looks good but I left one small comment to make it a little clearer.
